- [Instructor] We looked at some
of the strategies for system containers: how volumes
are created, how and where the volumes are stored.
In this section we'll take a look at Docker Volume Plugin.
What is Docker Volume Plugin?
Docker Volume Plugin aligns well with batteries included
but replaceable principle of Docker.
There's a default driver that supports local,
host-based volumes that is already included with Docker,
and we saw examples of that.
The default behavior can be extended or replaced
to support new storage back ends
when additional are installed.
Typical your plugin would allow to use block storage devices
like Amazon EBS or the distributed five-system storage
like CEPH and Blester FS.
These plugins ship with their own c-line tools as well
to manage the life cycle of storage volumes.
So how does it work?
Well, there is a Docker Client and there is a Docker Host.
And then there is a default local volume plugin
that is available.
That's exactly what it's being used for
per container sandbox whether implicit or explicit.
You can install the plug in which comes typically
with the plugin Daemon and a plugin client.
The plugin client will allow you to manage
the lifecycle of the volume if you want to do it externally,
but otherwise, that functionality can maybe be exposed
using plugin Daemon itself, but essentially,
the plugin Daemon will give you access to
multiple storage back ends.
So, what we going to use here?
We're going to use a Docker Volume Plugin for Portworx.
What is Portworx?
Portworx is easy-to deploy container data services.
Anytime you are looking to deploy containers that has data,
that's when you're going to think about Portworx.
It gives you persistence, replication,
snapshots, encryption, and many more functionalities.
You may wonder why Portworx?
Well, Portworx gives you container granular volumes.
It can take multiple EBS volumes per host
and aggregate the capacity and derive container granular
virtual soft volumes per container.
Portworx will encrypt the data at block level
across multiple compute instances across availability zones.
As the application controllers restart ports
on different nodes, the data will still be available
on these nodes.
Portworx also implements container granular snapshots.
Class of service tiering on top
of the available physical volumes.
And last but not least, Portworx itself
is deployed as a container granular storage
with any property, such as size,
class of service, encryption key, et cetera.
So how does it work?
You would Docker Host, which is that standard model
Portworx is available in two flavors.
There's a PX-Dev, which is open-source to
win a proversion, and there's PX-Enterprise.
We're going to be using the PX-Dev container
that comes with the Portworx client,
and essentially we're going to be storing our volume
on Amazon EBS.
With that, let's take a look at what can we do with it?